And we're talking with Jack Driscoll to my left, who is the editor-in-residence of the News in the Future Project, and Walter Bender, who's director.
Tell me, what is News of the Future?
Is it content or is it technology?
Well, it's not News of the Future.
It's News in the Future.
News of the Future is our secret crystal ball factory down the basement.
That's too secret for you to see.
News in the Future is... Well, that's a key...
That's a key point, isn't it?
Yes.
And I missed it.
I missed it.
Go ahead.
Well, those of us who believe in print and text actually look at the words that are printed on the page.
But anyway, News in the Future is looking at how is technology going to impact news.
And it's a consortium.
It's sort of in the spirit of the Media Lab that we're working.
very closely with industry, sort of the usual players and some unusual players.
So it's companies like the Boston Globe and the New York Times, Tribune, ABC.
It's also companies like Televisa in Mexico, China in Argentina, Estado in Brazil.
And it's also a few other companies, McCann Erickson, JCPenney,
companies that are involved in advertising as well as the editorial side of news.
Now these are companies that are supporting?
Well, they're not just supporting the work, they're very much involved in the work.
So one of the things we're doing is we're trying, we're being pretty aggressive about making sure that the work doesn't just happen in a sort of a myopic laboratory setting, but also goes out into the field.
So there's a lot of
experimentation that's been going on that finds its way very quickly out of the laboratory into the hands of the people who are actually making and using news.
Is this a study, or is this development of technology?
Well, it's mostly development of technology, and I guess we had a thesis early on
which was that there were going to be three impacts.
One is an impact on just the efficiency of news, of the news industry.
That's sort of a no-brainer.
Technology will facilitate production and distribution.
Technology will facilitate the gathering and dissemination of news.
A second...
a little less obvious, but somewhat more obvious today, five years after the fact, is convenience, that technology will have a direct impact on the convenience of accessing news by the consumer.
So things like getting news on alphanumeric pagers and the like.
I'll just sort of give you the framework, and then we can drill down wherever you'd like.
And the third is really where our minds and hearts are at, and that is making news be more relevant to people, that technology can have a direct impact on the relevancy of news and make news be more empowering.
Well, I'll give you some specific examples in a few minutes, okay?
But just to make it somewhat more concrete, if people don't find news relevant, they're not going to
bother to be engaged they're not going to bother to use news and the news industry is in trouble regardless of how efficient it is but so what we're trying to do is we're trying to look at how do people use news what what can make news be more not not just more convenient but more accessible in in every sense of the word and more useful to people so we're looking at trying to figure out how people
how people use news and how people might use news.
And that's making us sort of rethink where news comes from.
Right now, even in the era of the Internet, most news sort of comes from above.
It comes from news organizations, and there's not as much, although there's beginning to be a lot more sort of a,
grassroots news coming out of a community phenomenon, and we're looking pretty closely at that.
So what he's saying, Jack, is the local angle, I guess, right?
Which allows your paper to, you know, just by the nature of the business, how can you possibly cover every meeting, every PTA?
Is that the kind of thing that you're talking about, relevance in terms of how it affects the daily life?
That's one example.
There's some other kinds of examples as well.
Maybe I should jump right into what I think is a pretty concrete, easy to grasp example.
We have a system called PLUM.
P-L-U-M.
It's an acronym that stands for Peace, Love, and Understanding Machine.
That's great.
Is that the machine?
Yeah, it's a machine.
It was a machine developed by one of our graduate students,
S-A-R-A, SARA, ELO, E-L-O.
And the idea behind PLUM is that it looks at the problem of personalization from a slightly different perspective.
Right now, most people think about
personalization is a very one-dimensional problem.
It's sort of a problem.
How do we decide what news you're going to see?
I've got one of those programs.
Yeah, maybe you can go grab that.
But so the New York Times prints all the news that's fit to print.
That's one filter.
That's one way in which you could get the news that you're interested in.
Another way would be to have a personal learning agent
cruising the internet, finding things on your behalf, and there are other mechanisms as well.
That's all about selecting of content or filtering of content.
Is it the individual selecting?
Well, it could be the individual.
It could be some organization selected on your behalf.
We'll debate that one in a second.
But that's still thinking about the problem
of news dissemination.
It's just all the stuff that's happening out here, and some subset of it's going to be presented in front of me.
Is there something I could have, by the way?
No.
It would be, but this is the last one that I know of.
We're all out.
Maybe we could Xerox it, though.
Oh, yeah.
He's a collector.
I also believe that you can never have too much material.
Apparently Cornell's got too many books.
I don't have too many though.
It's like a feel-good machine, isn't it?
Peace, love.
And it's a machine?
This is it?
This is what we're looking at?
No.
If he uses the word machine, it's a technology.
Uh-huh.
Well, I mean, it's a technology that's been embedded inside of a machine, so it's something that's been instantiated.
It's not just an idea.
But do we foresee it as something that some people are going to carry around with him?
This guy's a real good reporter.
He asks lots of questions, but he never listens to the answers.
So how about if I tell you what it is, and then you can ask me.
Okay.
You know, you can use your hour any way you want.
I find you fascinating.
I like listening to you.
I'd like to just hear your stories, and that's great.
Anyway, whatever.
What plum does that takes a story?
It doesn't make a decision about whether this story is important to you, but given that the story is one that you should see, what it tries to do is it tries to make sure that the story has the context which is going to make it more readily accessible to you.
So in this case, it's a story about a flood, a flood in China.
And what the system does, the machine does, is it automatically...
identifies key facts and figures in the story.
So one fact in the story is that 250,000 acres of farmland were flooded.
Now... It's prioritizing the facts for you.
No, not yet.
Okay, what it's done is it's found these facts, okay?
Then what it's doing is... But it's marshalling them, though.
I know I should be listening.
I'm sorry.
I'm just challenging something.
You're not challenging yet, but you're not listening either.
Maybe what we should do is just give you some papers and you can read them.
No, I'm sorry.
I apologize.
Go ahead.
Anyway, it's prioritizing the facts and presenting them to you in a nice prioritized order, and that's how it works.
That's how machine works.
So let me tell you what it really does.
Okay.
It finds, never mind how for the time being, but it finds these facts in the story.
Now, when I'm presented with 250,000 acres of farmland, my eyes glass over because I don't know what 250,000 acres of farmland is.
So what Plum wants to do is Plum wants to make that number mean something to me.
It wants to give me context by which I'll understand what that number means.
Because, see, Reuter, when they wrote the story, they just, you know, this is just straight off the wire, okay?
They didn't know about me, so they didn't know that I was going to glass over when I saw that number.
So what Plumbus says, okay, Walter, you're from Boston, so therefore I'm going to tell you that this is what 250,000 acres means.
250,000 acres is that big on a map of Boston.
That's interesting.
So what Plum has done is said, okay, if you're going to read the story, I want you to understand it.
I want you to understand the context in which the story exists.
And one key element is to be able to understand things like what 250,000 acres is relative to what you know, what your experiences are.
So what Plum's all about is it's about trying to make
connections that provide context.
So, for example, another example of context is China.
This flood took place in China.
Well, what's China?
China's some country way out there.
Wait a second.
There are 14,000 people in Boston who speak one of the Chinese languages at home.
So maybe China isn't something quite so far away.
Maybe China is something that's important right back home.
This is not in the story, but this is the system that's saying we know that there were 14,000 people.
Right, right.
So Plum, this is the story, and this is what Plum provides, is the context around the story.
What do you call it?
This is a subtext?
What is it?
Do you have a name for this?
We call it context.
Context.
Okay, now you could present it.
There are many different ways in which that could be presented.
It could be presented as links in a hypertext system.
It could be presented as insets or sidebars.
It could be presented as...
any number of different ways.
But the point is it's there.
It makes the story more accessible.
It takes something that's very generic and it casts it in a framework that makes it make more sense to somebody from Boston.
Or if I'm not from Boston, what if I'm from Buenos Aires?
Or Plum can do the same thing.
Or if I'm from Tampra, which is a little town in Finland, same thing.
So the idea is that Plum
takes the story, analyzes it, takes who I am, and provides the context.
Now, you showed me Buenos Aires and some other country.
Does Plum also translate it?
No.
Plum doesn't do translation, although the technology behind Plum is one that we think down the road is going to lead toward better machine translation, but it's not mature enough yet to...
I'm looking for one word.
We refer to that as argumentation.
Argumentation?
Right.
So that you take a text, a bare text, and essentially through hyperlinks, you're augmenting the text and giving it more value, more context.
So that's basically what this is.
Now, this is a concept that's been developed here, or is this actually
Is Plum actually advice that you can... It's both.
That's why I said machine, because it really is something that exists and works.
It's a concept that's been implemented.
It's been instantiated.
Is it something like this that you can carry around, or is it something that has to be like this?
No, it's something that is a software program
and its instantiation can be inside of a device like this, or a device like that, or a device like that, or something that's printed.
What was that word?
Substantiated.
Instantiated.
That's a new word I made.
Did you use that word?
I don't know if I used it, but I didn't know it.
You learned it when you got here, though.
It puts it in several forms.
Did you know that word before you
Yeah, I think so, yeah.
Okay.
I know it sounds like a silly question, but... No, that's a good question.
That's the first good question you've asked as far as I'm concerned.
I've just got a curiosity.
The others were naive?
No, the others were jumping the gun.
Okay.
Okay, the others were asking before you actually listened.
And that was a question where you asked a question in response to something that was said to you, which I think is generally more appropriate, but...
I'm not in a good mood today, I guess.
Monday morning.
Monday morning, that's fine.
And I'm used to it.
So anyway, I mean, this was an example, I think this is an example of what I mean by relevance, that this makes this story much more relevant to a reader because it makes the story relate to something the reader actually knows.
So it's not abstract anymore, but it's much more concrete.
Of course, the word relevance is such a buzzword today.
And this is not the context at all, obviously, that you're using it.
We talk about the literary canon, which is another consideration of this book, which has nothing to do with what you're talking about, obviously.
But people suggest, well, we don't have to teach Shakespeare anymore because it's not relevant to it.
to people's lives.
And then I'm saying, well, my God, how do you determine relevance?
You know, what is relevance?
And I thought that maybe this machine was determining content, the relevance of certain content, and therefore perhaps even prioritizing the points that some programmer or some individual or another machine is determining what is most important for me.
That's why I was
Right.
That's why I was a little exercise.
But I thought you might be suggesting.
Maybe you could address yourself.
Sure.
I think that what he was talking about is localization plus.
When you were a young reporter, you were asked to localize certain stories.
I still do it.
So what this does is it brings home a disaster in a remote area.
not only to a person's place, but to a person themselves.
In other words, it's not just localizing it, but it's giving it broader implications for you, where you are.
So it's a triangulation, really, of information.
I'm a lifelong writer and journalist, and I certainly know Jack Fiscal's reputation, and I'm curious what brings you to the
Are you kind of looking at it in terms of content or in terms of delivery, in terms of start anywhere you want?
Yeah, I mean, just to back up to when this group first started, I was at the Globe, I was editor of the Globe, and Negropani and Walter gathered a bunch of people from the media and said, this thing was happening so fast.
that we feel the only way to look down the road five or ten years is to jointly do it.
And I thought, well, they're never going to agree to work together.
But sure enough, they did.
Companies that are essentially competitors and have been at each other's throats for years suddenly decided that there was a common interest
And so that's how the consortium started.
I was representing the Globe.
When the group became formal, the Globe asked me to be the representative.
When I left the Globe, which was on my 60th birthday, I continued to be interested in the students and in the projects.
I guess I was a volunteer, if you will, for a while.
So now I'm here a day or two a week working with some of the students on the projects because I have a perspective that I hope can be helpful for them.
And also working with the sponsors as sort of a liaison person and an interpreter of what's going on.
someone who can facilitate getting the good ideas that are terminating here out into the real world.
So that's what I see myself doing.
Jumping ahead, do you see this technology replacing the print medium?
No.
I see it.
No, I don't.
I mean, I see it supplementing.
I don't see it replacing it.
What does the print, what is art for the individual that would suggest that it would continue to work?
I think it's pretty—the elements of print are fairly well known.
It's easy to carry, it's cheap, and all of those various things.
And so, for some people, that will continue to be true.
For others, it will depend on where they are and what their needs are.
And they'll have television, radio, and computer to get their information, audio, whatever.
Who would deliver this?
You buy the machine and you pay for a service that would cull all these publications?
Right now I buy a machine and pay for a service from the Boston Globe.
The machine I buy is printed paper and the service is a collection of editorial judgments and assignments to reporters and collection of advertising.
That's going to remain the same.
It's going to evolve.
There are going to be certain changes to it.
the machine nature of it, the fact that it gets delivered as ink on paper.
Well, I don't know whether you believe Joe Jacobson and what he showed you this morning.
Joe didn't make it.
Oh, you're doing that after.
Okay, okay, okay.
But I'm quite eager to see it.
I think at some point we're going to have
displays, electronic displays, that are as good or better than paper.
And when that happens, I think that the economics of paper are going to be such that most people are going to move towards these electronic displays.
And Marvin Minsky, I like to quote, said that paper will be a luxury only the rich can afford eventually.
Now, that doesn't mean that the things that you associate with the paper edition of the Boston Globe or the New York Times or the Chicago Tribune or whatever has to go away, because I think that those kinds of things, the notion that there is a Jack Driscoll making decisions, that can all exist in this electronic form as well.
and the look and feel we can mimic to whatever extent we choose to in our electronic paper.
So I think that it's a red herring worrying about whether or not it's going to be electronic or income paper.
I think the more interesting question is what's the content of the future?
What are the decisions that are made in terms of what content people see?
Can we use a computer to
make that content be more useful to people, more engaging to people?
Can we provide a forum for local communities as well as these national or international forums?
Those are the more interesting issues.
How does society get impacted by this change in terms of technology?
So it's the intelligence of the machine and the way that intelligence gets applied to news that I think is much more important than
whether or not we still squeeze trees or use electronic media.
And I really do have a larger concern, and I'm just, you know, a couple of things just over the last couple of days.
For instance, you know, all right, the Dallas Morning News at McVeigh story is very interesting, that they moved it first on the Internet, you know, before they printed it.
I'm wondering if this was considered on their part.
Were they just kind of child ballooning it out there?
You know, I wonder.
And I went and I called it up, and I said, this is a historic news story.
I printed it out.
I said, this is a very historic thing, because I saved interesting news stories.
And then, and just quite unrelated to that, on 60 Minutes last night, they had a segment on, you know, the thing that really concerns me is that anybody, any jerk, any psychopath can put stuff on, can get a website.
can put anything out there, and put it out as, you know, TWA conspiracy brought down by missile, put up a pretty graphic, and it goes on.
Now using, you call up a site, and I don't know, maybe you just funnel it into Plum, and Plum now gives it a legitimacy by saying TWA, Long Island, X number of acres.
Well, I mean, that's certainly a problem.
And the thing that I respect, let me just let you say, the thing I respect most about the newspaper business
that we have people like Jack Driscoll sitting up there, and he has set up his structure, his tiers of editors, and that there are people who are saying, who did you talk to?
Let me see your facts.
You know?
And I'm wondering if you're going to have these kinds of safeguards in place electronically.
That's a question.
And I think the answer is that yes, we're going to need those kind of safeguards, and that there's
certain sources are going to be more credible than other sources.
But I'll argue that that's true today in the print media as well, that certain sources, certain publications are a lot more credible than others.
And granted, today, anybody can have a website, any lunatic or any not lunatic.
And many of them do.
And only wealthy lunatics can have newspapers.
So there's a change there.
You don't own newspapers.
Well, own or control newspapers.
Yeah, but we have laws in place to protect people from libelous and scandalous allegations.
And you don't have this kind of protection in place out here.
You could be putting stuff out there, and the subject won't even know that it's going on out there.
That was one of the things of the 60 Minutes thing.
They say, show us 60 Minutes.
And all of a sudden, all these things are popping up.
They didn't have a clue that this stuff was being
said about them, you know, or the Mrs. Fields cookies, you know, that they had sponsored a party for O.J.
Simpson and that there was a measurable loss in their business, 1%.
They didn't even know the thing had been out there, you know.
What was a measurable loss for General Motors when their truck was exploded on NBC?
What was the measurable loss for...
whatever the name of that grocery chain was when ABC did their little number on them.
They deserved it, though.
I mean, nobody disputed the facts of the case and how they were acquired.
I'm not sure, but I guess what I'm saying is that the present media doesn't have a monopoly on integrity either, or it doesn't necessarily have a monopoly on truth.
It cuts both ways.
I hear you.
It's a problem.
It's one that technology can only partly address, and yet I guess I don't think that we should be... I'm not a big believer in censorship.
I'm not a big believer in squelching voices.
I guess I'm more interested in...
giving people voice, because I think a lot of people don't get heard.
You should be heard.
I think a lot of people get heard who shouldn't be heard, too.
You know, you always have a trade-off when you try to design freedom into systems.
Oh, I know.
I think it's fascinating what you do.
I'm just asking questions.
Does this seem appropriate?
No, it's a problem.
And certainly, I mean, already the beginnings of some mechanisms that one could argue are either wonderful mechanisms for censorship or potentially wonderful mechanisms for addressing this issue of credibility.
So, for example, the PIC system, which is the ratings system,
system that is being advocated by the World Wide Web Consortium.
What it does is it says, hey, we can make a commodity out of rating or lending weight to the credibility or the suitability of websites.
Now,
What that means is it means that I could subscribe to the Jack Driscoll rating service, which means that there's going to be, if I get things from the Jack Driscoll rating service, then there's going to be the Jack Driscoll seal of approval, just like there's a good housekeeping seal of approval or some other seal of approval.
And so I think you're going to begin to see a lot more of that kind of service being offered.
by legitimate people, and also by charlatans.
But the story will be clearly identified as a New York Times news service story, or a Reuters story, or a... Well, no, but it could be clearly identified as one that Jack Criscoll has, in his organization, has verified, or selected, or... I think another way of looking at this is that you have the Internet, it's a fax,
And you have websites and all the rest.
You also have the Media Lab.
And the Media Lab is in the process of trying to do some things that make sense out of all this.
One thing, for instance, is data hiding.
Data hiding?
Right.
Which has been developed under the News in the Future program and deals with print, audio, and videos.
And what it does is that it preserves the original copy, in effect.
Is that too short a short answer?
So does it maintain an archival copy?
No, no, no.
What it does is it—one way to apply this technology is to think of it as a tamper-proofing, so that if something gets changed—if a picture gets changed, like maybe they put your head on
Jack's body for terrific consideration.
Or if a text article gets changed, then it shows up.
The tamper mechanism.
That's sort of an example.
But that's an example of how technology can help address this problem, but it's not the solution.
Do you mind just exploring that a bit?
Sure.
Another consideration I have a part of,
from what you're doing is, you know, Brown University has this hyper-fiction interactive, where you invite students to, you know, the author is not really the author of the work.
And, you know, it is something blind as an author.
I mean, can people come in and fool around with it and change it?
And, of course, now it comes to me.
I mean, this is a real possibility, isn't it?
you're pampering with news stories that could be a great concern to you.
And so you are developing ways to safeguard that this kind of thing doesn't happen.
Is that right?
Yeah, well, we're trying to.
It's a hard problem.
But do you also, on the other hand, also foresee interactive news stories?
Well, one might anticipate some of that by where you can selectively pull things out to make it more relevant to yourself.
Well, certainly people have already interacted with news.
I like to describe the traditional print newspaper as a very highly interactive device.
It's been designed to allow me, with great facility, to ignore 90% of the content.
When I read the Boston Globe, I don't read every word.
I pick and choose what I want to read.
I'm directed by the pagination.
I'm directed by the layout.
The editor interacts with me because when I turn to page 13 to follow up on an article on page 1, there are other related articles that are on page 13.
So it's already a highly interactive medium, and it's only going to get more so as we provide more information.
tools for doing that kind of thing.
On the other hand, let me turn it around a little bit and maybe I should let Jack describe a project that we've got going called Silver Stringers.
And the reason I want, I think it's an important project because it is, again, it's looking at is there room for other voices and how might one think about
getting these additional voices.
Kind of like an op-ed page?
Well, why don't you describe what it is?
Now, let's get back to tampering, because that is something that concerns me.
That has to be a real consideration.
I hadn't even thought of that.
But what if somebody is able, we have hackers that can penetrate virtually anything else, can they go in and change a story and change the art, alter it?
Yeah.
in a way that suits their personal political purposes or whatever.
Is that possible?
It's possible.
And it would carry the imprimatur of the authority of this plumb.
You might think you're reading a New York Times story, but in actuality, I mean, somebody can't go and alter every newspaper that's written on the streets.
That's done.
That's printed.
That's in type.
And that's out there.
But I'm wondering now if that is a threat.
Well, that's a good question.
Let's turn it around for a second and look at it from a different perspective, which is, say, the congressional record.
C-SPAN is an interesting take on the congressional record, because, in fact, what gets put down in print and distributed and exists is not really what happened.
C-SPAN is what happened.
Well, again, it's your concept of what the congressional record is, too, I suppose.
Whether it's what happened or it's what the congressmen want to say what happened, right?
And so you could say, is the printed newspaper what happened or what the Boston Globe wanted to say as to what happened?
I've skirted the issue, and I apologize for that.
Okay.
By the same token, I signed a document here that said anything I see about machines, I have to run by you, and that's fine.
But that also gives you an opportunity to say, well, I know I said this, but maybe we can change the quote a little bit to say this.
That's kind of the... Well, we still have copyright laws, so you can't tamper.
That's right, legally.
Technically, you can tamper.
Temple with what, though?
Temple with text.
Text, with images, whatever.
Technically, that can be done.
But no, I'm suggesting a criminal act, you know, an unlawful act.
So there are laws, and that's why I think data hiding has a terrific future, is because it supplements copyright laws, for instance, and protects the original version, which is
or proves a case in the copyright.
I understand, but I still don't see how you can change all 600,000 globes that went out on the street.
But you know what?
You're right.
You can't go and change every one of these 600,000 or even 6,000 globes that are out on the street.
But the bottom line is that electronic media exists.
It's not going away.
Pandora's box is already opened.
It's not a matter of saying, boy, I wish we had the good old days when it was harder to distort.
Not that it's ever been hard to distort, but I wish we had the good old days.
Well, that doesn't cut it.
Because the bottom line is that there is electronic media.
There are people out there publishing and consuming information in electronic form.
And so the question is, what do we do about that?
build mechanisms for protection, for credibility in that environment.
And that's really what we're trying to do.
We're not trying to say it doesn't exist.
We're not trying to close our eyes to it.
We're trying to say it exists.
And since it exists, let's see if we can make it be helpful rather than hurtful.
Let's see if we can make it be positive for society rather than harmful to society.
So what
And data hiding and tamper-proofing technology is one example of that.
Another example might be something like a PIC system, which I was previously describing.
Another example is something like Plum, which tries to take things and put them into context.
Another example is technology that we've been developing.
This is a work of another graduate student, Warren Sack,
which is able to try to analyze point of view.
So what it does is it gives you an indicator, what's the point of view from which this article's been written.
So then you have the possibility, well, you've got two possibilities.
One possibility is you can say, only give me things from a particular point of view.
The other possibility is you can say, make sure that I'm getting a well-rounded representation of any issue.
So it can cut both ways, but again, these are examples of where I think the technology is opening up opportunities for some kind of improvement as well.
Now, MIT impresses everybody.
I mean, not only is this a great institution of learning and research, but there's a practical point to everything.
I mean, stuff is done here because when you have these sponsors, they expect it to go into the field.
Do you have any kind of timetable for any of these things that you're talking about?
Well, some of the things that we've been talking about are in the field.
So, for example, some of the data hiding work that we are describing is being discussed by the digital video community as being part of the digital video standard, as one example.
be used to figure out whether people are copying or changing video.
Because whereas even just several years ago it would have been impractical for people to manipulate video just as it is even today impractical for people to manipulate the 600,000 printed editions of the Boston Globe, well that's changing.
and the ability to manipulate video is with us today.
So building some of those mechanisms in for protection is something that is happening today that the industry is worrying about right now.
So you're obviously alert to it, then, and to the threat, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
How about this plum?
Well, some aspects of Plum are being integrated into some commercial services.
Bits and pieces of Plum were embedded into the IBM website covering the Olympics last summer.
Plum is probably still a little bit too immature.
for widespread deployment in that it only works with a narrow domain.
It's not a general purpose solution yet.
So that development still has to happen.
But the PLUM concept is something that's beginning to find its way into different projects and applications.
And it is largely a software thing.
At this point, it's not a device that you're talking about.
We have forty projects, at least, that are going on in—just in NIF, we have a hundred—how many?
In what, I'm sorry?
A hundred and seventy-eight that are going on in the media.
One hundred and seventy-eight.
Right.
Projects.
Wow.
Individual projects.
So one, for instance, it is a hardware and software project is called Audio Notebook.
It would be a real benefit to you right now if you had it, because this little gadget that you have here would be inside your notebook.
You would be using a stenographer's notebook, just as you're using now.
It would be taping, and as you turn the page, the system would read the change of pages.
And then when you go back to transcribe your notes,
You go to page four, and you want a quote from—you remember Walter Bender talking about high-definition TV.
And so you find where you made a note of HDTV, you put your pen on there, and in your transcription, your audio plays back at that point.
And you can slow it down, speed it up.
So when you retranscribe notes to write a book or an article for a newspaper, you can easily—
reconstruct your quotes probably ten times faster.
Are these things that I can see at some point, and somebody walk me around?
It doesn't have to necessarily be today.
I mean, I won't be taking photographs or even taking— Well, I mean, what you will be doing, though, is you'll be taking time away from students.
Uh-huh.
I'd love to get some color, you know, for this.
Well, I also wanted to mention Fishwrap, which is the electronic newspaper that was developed by freshmen here at Media Lab that is now being used by the San Francisco Chronicle and Intel and several other organizations where you can personalize and localize your news
presentation.
That's really a superb engine, if you will.
So, for instance, I now live in New Hampshire, and when I log on to Fishwrap, the first thing it gives me is NH News.
And I click on that, and it gives me all the news.
It'll even give me Portsmouth News first, if something happens in the Portsmouth area.
And so I can get New Hampshire local news right away.
Then I get international news.
I can package my areas of interest in such a way that I can quickly find out what I want to know.
And it just draws it right out of the day's news base database.
So that's been going for four years.
It's used on the campus by students, faculty,
And you call it fishwrap.
It's called fishwrap.
In fact, the San Francisco Chronicles still calls it fishwrap.
You can look it up on their website.
Fishwrap, on the SF gate, I know that.
It's on SF gate, yeah.
You'll see how it's done.
The Silver Stringers Project, we've really just begun.
We started it six months ago in a community ten miles north of here, Mill Road.
which has a senior center for drop-in.
And so we went out there and we organized a bunch of people and said, we'd like to tap into your wisdom and have you do some writing or photography or artwork that tells the community your perspectives.
And these are people who had really no computer experience.
A couple of them had used word processors in their work environment before they retired.
I think only one of them had a computer at home.
And so now we have a website called the Melrose Mirror.
And it has probably 40 stories,
And so what we're looking at is how a community of interest builds sort of a community within a community.
And so that age bracket has certain characteristics and develops certain kinds of stories that make for a pretty interesting website.
It's just beginning, in a way, but it's there, and it's pretty fascinating.
So it's Melrose Mirror.
It's called Melrose Mirror.
I just want to punch that up as Melrose Mirror.
You know, we're trying to see from our perspective how people who are in their 70s or 80s respond in this kind of environment.
What are the tools that they need to be reporters or photographers or artists?
What can we provide that would make it easier for them to do the kinds of things that they want to do?
I've looked at your list of sponsors, and you do have some book publishers.
Does the News and the Future Project also embrace technology as it regards the printed book?
Yeah, I think that's a good question.
Okay.
Right.
If you're going to be seeing him, is he going to be seeing Joe later?
Yeah.
Eventually?
Did he come in?
Yeah.
Oh, good.
Right.
You have to forgive me, by the way.
Well, I didn't know that we were on this morning.
I would have been a little more sharper at the beginning.
Yeah.
more willing to listen.
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to.
I'm just grouchy Monday mornings, period.
Well, that's cool, but anything that I didn't ask you that you think I should know at this particular point?
Well, I guess, let me just say, finish what I was going to say at the very beginning, which was that
I mentioned three areas that we think technology is going to impact, and there are three technologies we think are relevant or important technologies to be addressing, and that's what we're working on.
And those three technologies, which to more or less degree also impact books, I think some of them to a lesser degree, one of them is the technology of describing content formed by computer.
And that's going to be critical for A, sort of just the efficient processing, but it's also going to be critical when we really are trying to address these issues of things like credibility and tamper-proofing and sorting and filtering and the like.
That having the computer have a better understanding of text and content and what that means is really in a critical path.
So we've got a big effort in that area.
Second is the technology of
observation, that we want to be observant about people and community.
Because if we're going to begin to personalize or localize, we need to have a sense of who we're personalizing for or localizing for.
So that technology is also, I think, a critical technology.
The third technology is the technology of presentation or look and feel.
And to what degree does the technology of presentation
again, impact efficiency and convenience, but also impact sort of the way in which news is used.
So, again, one example is just how do I take the New York Times and make it still work in a little page format like you get on the Alphabet and the Pager.
It's not clear you can, but it's something we're interested in.
How do I take advantage of the fact that I've got a computer in here?
And there's one example of a project called Information Landscapes, which is really sort of a marriage of a computer flight simulator and a newspaper or a book.
And there are two offspring of that marriage.
One is paper airplanes, and the other is sort of this really very refreshing
really quite terrific, very powerful way of accessing information.
And we're very much interested in facilitating your ability to find your way through this virtual world.
And a lot of that's got to do with interface.
So how do you deal with the 90,000 things that you get back from an AltaVista search?
And so we're looking at what are technologies that can facilitate that
Another is the mundane stuff that Joe Jacobson is doing, which is making electronic paper.
That's my name.
Yeah.
That's going to have an impact on the economics of all this, but it's also going to have a big impact on where and when electronic media is accessible.
Because right now, you can't really use electronic media on the subway.
That's right.
Okay.
But when Joe is done, you'll be able to.
Or how about on an airplane?
Or on an airplane.
It's even more difficult.
Well, the airplane's easier than the subway, because an airplane, at least you've got that little tray you can put down, and the lighting's a little bit less.
You can't get enough air.
Oh, you've got...
modem jacks and all the telephones in the back of the seats now.
I think, of course, if your battery's only good for three hours or four hours— Well, then that's why you go into the John and you plug in about 110 volts.
Anyway, so that's— Yeah, I think if you look at the way the lab is organized through various departments,
of the elements that he's talked about, the design elements.
There's also—we haven't mentioned the learning element, which is an area where we're really dealing with education, dealing with children, how children use— I have a chapter in my new book on— Really?
Yeah, learning and literacy and all of a sudden.
This is cutting-edge stuff.
So one of the things, if you look at all of those areas, we even have a breakout, if you will, of age groupings.
We're trying to look at 10-year-olds.
We're trying to look at teenagers.
We're trying to look at middle-aged people.
So you said, look at these various people, how they— As users, as— What kind of a technique, maybe—
What kinds of technologies need to be developed to facilitate those age groups?
How they respond?
We're looking at communities of interest.
I guess my hour is up.
Thank you.
Sure.